ANN: I’ve had this energy all the time, this pushing. I just noticed this, either pushing or wanting to fix or wanting to do. It’s this energy going out, and I’m not sure if I’m blocking receiving because of that. Anyhow, this is all very new and in my conscious awareness, so that’s what I’m thinking about. 

ELIAS: I would be tremendously acknowledging of you and that you have given yourself that information, and that you allowed yourself to actually look at it and to begin to define it. Because this is something that I agree, you’ve been doing throughout your entire life, and it’s motivated by different expressions, but it’s always the same. It’s all the same. It could be that you’re being impatient with something, something isn’t happening fast enough, something’s not moving in the direction that you want it to move in, it’s something that you think you could do better than someone else and therefore you simply want them to get out of the way.
And in that, I would say that a lot of it has to do with control. And that’s why you push. But it’s also uncomfortable.
And I would say that in that, it’s something that if you aren’t doing it, if you actually move in a direction of allowing yourself to notice and stop, that you will actually realize how much more comfortable you actually are, and how much you can breathe – which is tremendous.

ANN: Yeah. Well, it’s definitely a direction I want to go in. The thing is, since like you say, it’s something I’ve been doing my whole life, it just feels like… “Oh my god, if I’m not pushing that, what do I do?” And I guess the answer is to just allow and notice.

ELIAS: Yes! To relax and allow.
In that, knowing that if something doesn’t happen immediately, it doesn’t matter, that there’s no enormous consequence that’s going to happen because YOU are the one that’s creating the consequences anyway.

ANN: Oh my god. Right when you said “consequence” I could feel my body tighten up a little bit. Because I think that’s the thing that I always push, push, push, because I feel like if I don’t do something, there’s going to be this enormous consequence.

ELIAS: But in that, this is a matter of reminding yourself that you’re the one that’s creating the consequence.

ANN: I know! That’s like this leap of faith to realize that I am creating it. Like when I had this conversation with Arthur, and he had some things going on, but it’s all the same themes. He was talking about feeling like being a victim, we feel like we’re being a victim, like these outside sources do have authority or control over us. I mean, that’s the way we’ve been living. And just to try to flip it to be “No, I am the one. I am the one,” that is such an unknown perception, or perspective, whatever. It’s like I want to get there. I want to know that. It’s just this big, blank area. 

ELIAS: Because it’s so unfamiliar.
And in that, I very much acknowledge that and express to you that although it is tremendously unfamiliar, it’s a matter of reminding yourself that in reality, you are the one that is creating any type of consequence, even though it seems that some outside source is doing that. Because what you are drawing on is experience from when you were a child. You’re not thinking about that, but that is what creates that perception. Because in that, when you’re a child, it appears that your parents are creating the consequences.
EIn that, that’s what you learn, that other people, especially anyone that you perceive as an authority, THEY are the ones that create the consequences, not you. But in actuality, YOU are the ones that are creating any consequences that you experience.
